README.md, before:

# UCM-Research-Generative-AI
## Research Abstract:
**Effect of Synthetic Data on the Robustness of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)**

*Baixi Guo, Kyle Wright, School of Natural Science, Conor Olive, School of Natural Science*

**Abstract**

Accurate and robust machine learning models are often used when solving complex tasks. However, these methods require large amounts of data which poses a challenge due to the scarcity of data. This study involves 3 stages, first, we synthesize data via a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to supplement a limited amount of data. Next, the accuracy and robustness of our CNN models are compared where one is trained on authentic data and the other trained on synthetic data. Subsequently, we investigate the optimal split between synthetic and authentic training datasets to assess the accuracy and robustness of our model utilizing synthetic data. Robustness refers to how a model’s accuracy changes with new data or perturbed data. We are introducing synthetic data into the study. So far, we have synthesized the datasets and plan to conduct experiments with the proposed methods in the future. While the work is still in progress, we anticipate that the synthetic dataset will impact the robustness of a CNN model.

## Purpose:
The research investigated the robustness of the Convolutional Neural Network model, trained on synthetic face emotion image data generated by a Generated Adversarial Network, addressing the lack of authentic training data and proposing the approach to complement that with synthetic data.

## Experimental Stages:
The research was conducted in three stages: 
- Stage one: Defined the Generative Adversarial Network model architecture, and trained on it with authentic dataset.
- Stage two: Defined the Convolutional Neural Networks model architecture for two models, one trained on the authentic dataset and another trained on the synthetic dataset. Tested both CNN models with authentic datasets, and evaluated the performance of the CNN model with Confusion matrices, precisions, and recalls metric.
- Stage three: Implemented two experimental designs:
  -  Design one: Due to the unbalanced numbers of images across different facial emotions, we decided to fill up the dataset from each facial emotion with synthetic images until each contains 9K images in total. We then evaluated the accuracy of the CNN model with 5K authentic images per category.
  -  Design two: We varied the ratio between authentic/synthetic images to assess the accuracy of the CNN models with authentic images across different ratios.

## Results:
- Stage Two:
  - The CNN model trained on the authentic dataset: Yielded an average accuracy of 77.23% across categories, but specifically excellent in predicting Happy facial emotion with 85.63% accuracy.
  - The CNN model trained on the synthetic dataset: Yielded an average accuracy of 28.14% across categories. Therefore, CNN was underperforming in predicting different facial emotions. Particularly, CNN predicted significant amounts of images as Sad facial emotions even though they weren't.
- Stage Three:
  - Design One: Happy facial emotion has the most authentic images across categories before filling up with synthetic images, yielding the highest accuracy of 75.01% across different facial emotions.
  - Design Two: The varying ratio of authentic (80%) and synthetic (20%) images and all authentic images yielded the highest accuracy of 54% while all synthetic images yielded the lowest accuracy of 30.77%
 
## Conclusions:
- We encountered challenges such as time and computational power constraints in synthesizing high-quality facial emotion images using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to address data scarcity, leading to distinguishable differences from authentic images and prolonged training time.

## Future Works:
- Continued to investigate the robustness of the CNN model by inserting different magnitudes of random noise into image data to examine its accuracy in predicting facial emotions
- Train on extracted feature vectors as opposed to original images
- Explore different types of GAN Architecture, Loss Functions
- Utilize the LSUN dataset, a larger and more complex dataset containing a collection of diverse indoor and outdoor images.

## Files Details (Execute files in following orders)
1. [stage0_reader.ipynb](stage0_reader.ipynb): Loaded the facial emotion image dataset and combined images with different facial emotions into a CSV file
2. [stage0_stratify.ipynb](stage0_stratify.ipynb): Split the images in CSV file into a test/train set, and performed exploratory data analysis to gather valuable insight
3. [stage0_classifier.ipynb](stage0_classifier.ipynb): Constructed and evaluated for CNN model training on authentic images
4. [stage1_train.ipynb](stage1_train.ipynb): Synthesized images using GAN model

Commit message:

Update README.md with Poster File

README.md, after:

# UCM-Research-Generative-AI
## Research Abstract:
**Effect of Synthetic Data on the Robustness of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)**

*Baixi Guo, Kyle Wright, School of Natural Science, Conor Olive, School of Natural Science*

**Abstract**

Accurate and robust machine learning models are often used when solving complex tasks. However, these methods require large amounts of data which poses a challenge due to the scarcity of data. This study involves 3 stages, first, we synthesize data via a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to supplement a limited amount of data. Next, the accuracy and robustness of our CNN models are compared where one is trained on authentic data and the other trained on synthetic data. Subsequently, we investigate the optimal split between synthetic and authentic training datasets to assess the accuracy and robustness of our model utilizing synthetic data. Robustness refers to how a model’s accuracy changes with new data or perturbed data. We are introducing synthetic data into the study. So far, we have synthesized the datasets and plan to conduct experiments with the proposed methods in the future. While the work is still in progress, we anticipate that the synthetic dataset will impact the robustness of a CNN model.

This is my Research Poster File --> [GANs Poster.pdf](https://github.com/StevenG777/UCM-Research-Generative-AI/blob/main/GANs%20Poster.pdf)

## Purpose:
The research investigated the robustness of the Convolutional Neural Network model, trained on synthetic face emotion image data generated by a Generated Adversarial Network, addressing the lack of authentic training data and proposing the approach to complement that with synthetic data.

## Experimental Stages:
The research was conducted in three stages: 
- Stage one: Defined the Generative Adversarial Network model architecture, and trained on it with authentic dataset.
- Stage two: Defined the Convolutional Neural Networks model architecture for two models, one trained on the authentic dataset and another trained on the synthetic dataset. Tested both CNN models with authentic datasets, and evaluated the performance of the CNN model with Confusion matrices, precisions, and recalls metric.
- Stage three: Implemented two experimental designs:
  -  Design one: Due to the unbalanced numbers of images across different facial emotions, we decided to fill up the dataset from each facial emotion with synthetic images until each contains 9K images in total. We then evaluated the accuracy of the CNN model with 5K authentic images per category.
  -  Design two: We varied the ratio between authentic/synthetic images to assess the accuracy of the CNN models with authentic images across different ratios.

## Results:
- Stage Two:
  - The CNN model trained on the authentic dataset: Yielded an average accuracy of 77.23% across categories, but specifically excellent in predicting Happy facial emotion with 85.63% accuracy.
  - The CNN model trained on the synthetic dataset: Yielded an average accuracy of 28.14% across categories. Therefore, CNN was underperforming in predicting different facial emotions. Particularly, CNN predicted significant amounts of images as Sad facial emotions even though they weren't.
- Stage Three:
  - Design One: Happy facial emotion has the most authentic images across categories before filling up with synthetic images, yielding the highest accuracy of 75.01% across different facial emotions.
  - Design Two: The varying ratio of authentic (80%) and synthetic (20%) images and all authentic images yielded the highest accuracy of 54% while all synthetic images yielded the lowest accuracy of 30.77%
 
## Conclusions:
- We encountered challenges such as time and computational power constraints in synthesizing high-quality facial emotion images using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) to address data scarcity, leading to distinguishable differences from authentic images and prolonged training time.

## Future Works:
- Continued to investigate the robustness of the CNN model by inserting different magnitudes of random noise into image data to examine its accuracy in predicting facial emotions
- Train on extracted feature vectors as opposed to original images
- Explore different types of GAN Architecture, Loss Functions
- Utilize the LSUN dataset, a larger and more complex dataset containing a collection of diverse indoor and outdoor images.

## Files Details (Execute files in following orders)
1. [stage0_reader.ipynb](stage0_reader.ipynb): Loaded the facial emotion image dataset and combined images with different facial emotions into a CSV file
2. [stage0_stratify.ipynb](stage0_stratify.ipynb): Split the images in CSV file into a test/train set, and performed exploratory data analysis to gather valuable insight
3. [stage0_classifier.ipynb](stage0_classifier.ipynb): Constructed and evaluated for CNN model training on authentic images
4. [stage1_train.ipynb](stage1_train.ipynb): Synthesized images using GAN model
